So sometimes you're gonna find yourself
needing to flag errors within the code
that you write, right?
And you can do this by
throwing exceptions yourself.
So I'm gonna teach you how to do that.
We're gonna write a method that
calculates an employee's pay, but
it does not allow overtime.
So remember, we wrote something
like this very early on and
we did a while loop right to input
validate the input well now we're
a little bit more mature we can
throw an exception if we want to.
All right, so let's go ahead and
make a new class.
And we'll call this one,
ThrowingExceptions.
All right, inside of this class.
Let's do a public static void,
not void, double.
And we'll call this method calculatePay.
And this method will accept hours,
and it'll also accept a pay rate.
Okay.
And we want to say that this
method also throws an exception.
So to do that, after the parameter list,
you would write the word throws and
then what exception do you want to throw?
So for this one we want to throw negative
input exception, which does not exist.
So I'll also teach you how
to create an exception.
So Java has a bunch of exceptions
that you can pull from,
if none of them meet your needs,
you can write your own.
>> You just like extend
the overall exception class.
>> Let's see.
All right, so inside of here,
let's go ahead and
should we create the exception first.
All right, I'm gonna put this here so
that everybody can see it better.
All right, so
we got this negative input exception.
It's basically just a class, so
let's go back to our exceptions.
We're gonna make a new class,
give it a name.
And then yes,
you are just going to inherit from
exception because you get
a lot of good free stuff,
right out the box, right?
And all I would really need,
like that get message and
all of that stuff will just
automatically be here for you so
you don't have to like re-implement
all of that stuff, which is great.
The only thing you really need
to add here is a couple of
constructors that provides like a cause or
the message right so
we're gonna provide a default constructor.
Just so people have that,
this is a be a good example to
show you something else and
then let's create another one that
allows people to give us a message.
>> So it's this overloading the first one.
>> Well I guess technically but
they aren't methods constructors
aren't methods but technically, yes.
All right, so what I wanna do with
this one I wanna call my super,
which is who's my super?
>> Exception-.
>> Exception is my super, and I wanna
give it the message that was given to me.
All right, so that'll call the constructor
from exception that accepts a string.
And then in my default one,
we don't gotta get too jazzy.
I'm gonna call this And
I'm gonna give it my own message.
So if they called me without a message,
I better make a message up.
So I'm gonna say input must be
greater than or equal to 0.
What is this doing?
Anyone?
>> Calling the default
constructor of exception?
>> No.
>> The specific exception object for
the negative input exception?
>> Say it one more time.
>> Well, it's like we were messing
with those gutters and centers.
We had this dot where it's
referring to the specific object
of whatever you're talking about in
this case, a negative input exception.
>> All right.
Say it plain.
>> It is.
I don't know how to say it.
>> Tell me when I call this,
where am I going?
Go on.
>> Line nine.
>> I am going to line nine,
okay, very good.
So, when I caled this with those,
I could say dot, right,
remember we always talked about this,
this refers to this class.
So, when i call this dot I'm saying okay
this dot and then any of its fields or
methods or whatever when I say this with
parentheses I'm calling the constructor.
And specifically whatever constructor
matches the argument that I'm sending so
I gave it a string it must be calling
this constructor that takes a string.
So instead of me like not
providing this one right
I could have just provided
the other one I think
that will work just fine let me see, yeah.
>> But then anyone who no It doesn't
like because I didn't never mind.
So here, I think I just have
an exception because I didn't throw it.
Yeah, I don't have a return
statement with something like that.
So I don't need this here,
but it's a great way for
me to provide a message by default, Right?
And I could have just
called super with this.
That's another way I could have done this.
I could have just said, super, right?
But, that's kinda what I'm doing here/.
So I want to just say call my
thing that calls the thing.
Just in case this ever gets updated to
do more than the super I got that cover.
Now so I just wanted to flex and show you
a couple of different ways to do stuff.
All right, so back to,
we have our exception.
Well look at that little icon,
that means exception class.
Wow, that's fancy.
Y'all see?
Okay, all right IntelliJ.
All right so inside of our
calculatePay let's go ahead and
we're going to say all right if hours
is greater than 40 right that means
the overtime then we want
to throw an exception.
How do we throw exceptions?
Throw?
We use the word throw.
We say new and we call whatever
exception constructor we want,
negative input exception.
So here I have two options,
I could give it a specific message or
I can just use the default constructor and
that already provided a message, right?
>> What was the message you used on the
initial exception that you wrote again?
>> I see Input must be greater than.
>> So then you would want a new message
because that's not what's going on there.
>> Here, that's right.
So I actually want to throw
a different kind of exception.
So I want to show you all how you can do
multiple, like you can throw multiple
exceptions from like the same class
>> Over time violation exception maybe.
>> I'm gonna use one that's already in
Java so we don't have to create another
one but I can say like, illegal argument
exception or something like that.
There's so
many exceptions you can choose from you.
>> So I could do something like that and
then I could change the messaging.
So again, that's why you have one that
allows people to put the message.
So I could put something
that's really specific
to my case,
such as like ours must be less than or
equal to 40 less than or equal to 40.
Okay, so that'll call one of
Java's built-in exceptions.
And the illegal argument
exception is a runtime exception,
which means that it is
unchecked exception.
So even though I am throwing this
method from throwing this exception
from this method, I do not have to
declare that in my method header.
All right, so okay,
if the hours is greater than 40,
we wanna throw that exception.
Let's say else if
the hours is less than 0 or
the pay rate It's less than zero.
So we got these negative numbers, right?
So that's when we can call
that negative input exception.
So let's say throw new negative input
exception
>> And
that one you could leave
to the default messaging.
>> Yep.
So finally,
if we make it through all of this,
if we throw the exception,
this method is over, right?
So if we make it past all of this,
then we're good to go in,
the home stretch, and we can go ahead and,
add our return statement.
So we want hours, times, the pay rate
So this was a good example because
we created our own exception,
we threw our own exception,
so that's a nice custom one.
We also threw an exception
that already exists,
in Java we throw an unchecked exception
as well as a checked exception.
So we see that the checked exception
is the only thing that we have to
declare in the header as throws and
we don't have to do the one here.